hey it's mel and welcome to the mel robbins podcast i'm so excited to talk to you today because there is something unfolding in real time right now with 1 of our daughters who lives out in los angeles she's 21 years old and right now she's sitting in class and she's texting me and she's texting me about an issue that i know that you can relate to or someone in your life is going through this right now i mean she's literally blowing up my phone with text because she does not know what to do what's the topic wow well the topic is this what do you do when someone that you like suddenly starts having a crush on 1 of your friends that's what's going down in real time i've got the text messages and when she gets out of class i'm gonna try to track her down and see if she can unpack this situation with you and me in real time live and here's the thing this is much bigger than the topic of someone you like suddenly liking 1 of your friends this is really about being in the middle of an emotional tsunami where you find that you're starting to lose yourself and you're trying
so hard to get your own power back as you've been blindsided by some issue in your life that's what's going down in real time so whether you're facing this exact situation right now or you're trying to support somebody who is we have all had moments where you get news that just sends the emotions through your body and we're gonna work through it in real time on today's episode before we get into that i just wanna take a minute thank you i mean your feedback
so far on the mel robbins podcast has blown me away this is a brand new show and we are becoming a mighty show because of you and i wanted to do this podcast because i wanted to share my life in a more intimate and real time way with you in a way that i can't do in audiobooks and on youtube or in the short form content that you see on social media i wanted to go deeper into the everyday stuff that knocks us on our ass or that gives us hope and inspiration
and every time you share an episode or i see you posting them and sharing them on your social media pages you are helping to create a ripple effect of change so many of us want to make a difference in the world and if you hear something on this show that moves you that inspires you that empowers you that makes you laugh that makes you feel a little bit less alone and you share it with somebody else you are part of a force for good and for fun and so i wanna thank you from the bottom of my heart for your support for giving me your most precious commodity which is your time and your trust and together we are gonna do incredible things and we are just getting started
now that said so many of you are also blowing up my dms on instagram and comments on tiktok and the comments on youtube and messenger and on facebook and hitting the inbox so i wanna tell you something i want you to help me program this show and so please if you got ideas if when you listen to the mel robbins podcast you're like oh my gosh i got an idea for mel please go to melrobbins.com/podcast that's right go to my website melrobbins.com/podcast and right there you will see that there are 2 forms that we have created just for you 1 of the forms is a form for you to recommend an expert an author a friend somebody that you would love for me mel robbins to dig deeper with on some subject that you care about that's form number 1 form number 2 is topics baby give me your topics whether it's a problem you're facing and you need advice or there's something that you just wish that we would take our secret sauce of entertaining unpacking advice and go to work researching this topic for you and bringing you the most entertaining science backed and relatable way to approach the things that you're dealing with
so that's it thank you thank you thank you i love you i believe in you i love having your partnership and support it means everything to me and it provides so much motivation for our team to go even deeper get more creative and keep showing up for you so i love you thank you alright now let's get into this topic okay so i am in salt lake city and i'm about to give a speech and as i landed here in salt lake city my phone when it came back online started to blow up and it was text messages from our daughter who is a senior in college her name is kendall and she is a music student and she aspires to be a singer songwriter and that piece of information is important because it relates to the heartbreak the confusion and the entanglement issues she is going through
so what is the issue the issue is she was really interested in somebody in her program and they were collaborating as musicians they were hooking up they had a really fun relationship they really cared about each other and as these things do it kinda fizzled out and recently there has been a new friend that has come into her life that's also a musician that has been extremely helpful in collaboration and ken's all excited and in fact a week ago she called me and said you're never gonna believe this i met the coolest woman she wants to do sessions together she wants to work on music together i feel
so energized and now kendall's texting me because she found out a piece of information yesterday and it has rocked her world so at 11:43am my daughter texts me and says mom i gotta call you later i found out some tea and i'm hashtag sad and then i said let me guess brendan has a girlfriend that's her high school sweetheart who they've both committed to marrying each other if they're both single still in their thirties is that it tell me the tea i just got off a plane she says no remember how i told you my friend wants to help me book sessions and do management stuff yep and come on you are a tease when it comes to this kind of stuff lay it on me sorry i'm in class basically it's a long story but she
now has a crush on i'm gonna make up a name because i don't want to disclose their names she has a crush on what name should we use everybody steve steve she has a crush on steve steve steve okay basically it's a long story but she has a crush on steve and he has a crush on her because they've done a few sessions together because she needed help on a song she wrote for a class and i just know that this is the universe giving me a test because the fact that she just waltzed into my life wants to be a bigger part of my life and she just
so happens to be now developing a crush on this boy i have history with and have made really good music with this mom is not a coincidence but i'll admit i did have a big ugly cry last night because she's fucking gorgeous and they haven't even hooked up yet and he's already telling our friend maria that he's crushing on this girl too like bro we hooked up for 6 months and he never said those words to maria so now i just feel like he was only in it with me for the sex like wow
now i have to give myself some props i have been working on not trying to jump in and solve my kids' problems this is so hard for me to do my anxiety and my need to fix things and my need to make sure my kids are okay has me typically in this situation jump in and be like here's what you need to do and here but i have been working on using my own 5 second rule count backwards 5 4 3 2 1 put yourself in pause and then i choose a different response and my response
now is to not correct a situation but to seek connection and so i put myself in pause i'm so proud of myself for this you've gotta try this with the people in your life and instead of offering a solution i just offered connection and said well that fucking sucks i hate it when the universe does that and then she said like what am i supposed to make of this mom i put myself in pause i did not offer a solution and i said i don't know what do you think you're supposed to make of this can we just say good job mel robbins like i feel like okay this is a huge leap in my parenting skills she says well it almost feels like a test and then i say do you want me to tell you what i'm thinking and she says yes and i said i agree i think it's a test about how serious you are about music and then she says it's also confusing because they're both
so serious about music which is why i think they're like into each other and it's almost confronting for me in a way and then i wrote every relationship is a test this 1 is saying don't test me i'm just fine on my own hey wouldn't this be a great lizzo song this moment she says i know but this is just so fortunate i know that this is just the universe mom all i have been manifesting is devotion to my work and music above all else and clearly this is just a test of that manifesting because they are 2 people who wanna help me make progress in my music career and
now that they could potentially get involved with 1 another it's a test to try and shift my attention and question both of their roles and if i actually want to collaborate and use them to help me with my music career i've been trying so hard all day to have an abundant mindset like good for them honestly how great it is that someone i want to produce and write with is also really did someone that i wanna support that wants to support me believe in me and help me grow you know and then i said i want you to also consider energy
she said expand on that i said i will later i think your energy is off now that this has happened and this is not a good sign she says what do you mean i said well it doesn't work for you to collaborate on music with someone you have weird vibes with now i wanna stop right there and unpack something for you if you never if you don't know what to do in life always go in and pay attention to energy when the energy shifts around people or relationships or anything that you're doing that is always a sign about alignment it's a sign for you to slow down when energy vibes shift and something feels off as a human being you are wired to be in alignment you're wired to feel like things are in a groove and clearly when you find out news like our daughter did 24 hours ago that somebody that you had been hooking up with and still have a crush on and still wanna work with
now has a crush on someone else and she has a crush on them the energy is gonna shift and it's now an opportunity for you to learn something about yourself for you to seek better alignment and for you to follow the energy that feels good that's the opportunity of a moment like this which is why i brought up energy let's go back to the text exchange okay mom can you expand on that i said well i will later but your energy is off and that's not a good sign she said what do you mean i said it doesn't work for you to collaborate on music which is something very intimate for you with someone you have weird vibes with have you ever had this situation happen to you like at work where you kinda had a crush on somebody at work and
next thing you know you're finding out that the person you have a crush on with is actually secretly dating somebody else at work and now you don't feel like you wanna work on projects with those 2 that's an example of that energy being off and then she says you mean the fact that my energy has been thrown by this means that it's not a good call but mom i also think that i can rise above this and be above this and let them do their thing without feeling threatened okay let's stop right there that is
so true what if you could develop the power and the self awareness to notice in these kinds of heartbreaking and confusing situations that boom the energy's off oh my god i'm disappointed i'm also confronted what if you could literally switch gears in that moment i mean wouldn't that be a superpower to be able to rise above that kind of thing and then she writes this well i don't wanna be with him
anyway i mean i just don't i just don't want him to want her mic drop isn't that life right there and of course i had to say you know that's a song i know you hate it when i say that but when i read your texts i feel like i'm reading lyrics so this is what we're gonna do we're gonna get her on the phone i have no idea how this is gonna go 1 thing i need you to know about this is that this is not staged and that i am going to try to bring you into my life but here's 1 boundary i need you to know as we start to do this on this show we will never air something that either that features my kids or text messages or a friend or my husband without them listening to the episode and giving us the okay i put that boundary in place because i want us to be able to record in a way that is spontaneous and authentic and live and in that environment allow people to speak freely but also to have people know that they're safe to speak freely because nothing will air that they're uncomfortable with
so it's important for me to tell you that so that you understand the steps that i'm taking to both share my life and keep this real and raw and authentic and relatable and deeply personal and also not exploit people or make them feel unsafe so let's see if we can get kendall robbins on the phone she does not know that we are calling her here we go we'll
be right back
so let's call kendall let's get her in on this
hi this is doctor schneeberger kendall's grandfather if you're a boy hang up otherwise leave a message at the tone please record your message
she has had that voice mail message that my dad recorded for since she was in grade i gotta give her props for having the same outgoing message that your grandfather recorded i mean for 8 years come on now if you can roll with that through high school and college you can roll through somebody crushing on your ex crush that's all i'm saying and you can also get the message in all of this mess of your life that what is hurting you is probably not meant for you that it's time that you align your life with a new direction that energizes you and people that you're in a groove with it's really that simple people come and go in your life and that doesn't mean that you're not gonna be stung when they exit because when that door slams sometimes your finger can get caught in it you know what i'm saying
so let's see if she calls us back oh here we go okay hold on kendall
hi
hi okay so i thank you for calling me back after class i wanted to talk to you about the text that we were exchanging today because it reminded what are you doing
i'm eating a chocolate bar mom like sorry i don't have a fucking podcast mic on me right now okay i'm ready go
america will wait now the globe will because there we have listeners and fans around the world hanging on your every word and the crumbs coming out of that chocolate bar
they're good crumbs
so i got your text today and i shared the gist of it with everybody and after sharing the gist of it with everybody i thought wow it reminded me of a moment when i was going through a really hard time and there was a bunch of my life a bunch of things in my life that were not working the way i'd hoped they would and you gave me some of the best advice i have ever received do you remember what it was i do what was it
well i told you that the reason that you were experiencing that whatever you were experiencing which was not a pleasant experience so you could get back in touch with what the people you're trying to inspire are struggling with every day because you're a very lucky person you've worked very hard for the life that you have but i think you on a day to day basis don't really struggle the way that the people you inspire do and i told you that the reason that you were having all these issues was because you needed to be reminded of how they feel and how you had once felt
and if we go a level deeper and more profound on the advice what force was actually giving me those lessons because in your advice there's a presumption about something bigger and more profound so talk about that
the universe well should i talk more descriptive of my own personal experience
well when you gave me that advice because it's easy to give advice right because you're not emotionally attached to the situation yeah and so when you gave me that advice that the reason why these things were happening in my life that were hard and challenging and causing me a lot of pain and causing me to question people around me and what was happening you basically said that mom your biggest mission in life is to help people that's how you started and because of your success you have gotten far away from what it feels like to wake up every day and feel this level of struggle that there was a there was something in this challenge tied to my purpose and that a greater spiritual force and energy was behind this if i was willing to look at the challenge that way
yeah do you believe that
no i mean i think it's also like has a lot to do with like growth and like comfort and like wanting to i don't know because i think like you and me are both inspired by and want to create things that require us to grow and to challenge ourselves every day and it's so easy to just stay in like a comfortable place to stay in stay in all the habits that you have to never do shit that scares you and i and or never do shit never interact with people or things or relationship that make you look in the mirror make you feel insecure make you scared make you angry whatever it is and i think that you that that like challenge tie that you experienced was like i don't know i think for me right
now i'm sort of in this place where i'm trying to i'm going through a teeny little fucking challenge tie that's like basically a fucking tide pool like it's not a tsunami
yet
yours was mine was not but i think i'm going through this challenge fight and i'm trying so hard because i wanna take because i want to maintain feeling aligned and because i want to embrace growth and not let this derail me that i'm like trying so hard to stay in like a mindset where i look at it as like an opportunity instead of like something that's been put something like i'm being damned i'm being wronged like it's more of like okay you know what thank you this is some sort of message what is the message because let's go back to this part where you get the news that somebody that you are a new friend with is
now crushing on somebody you used to crush with
and and this new this new friend has come into my life and asked if they can pour it to me basically professionally which is like an absolute godsend and then i find out like a few days later that it's like there's some entanglement between someone that i used to feel something for and now they might feel something for them but i still wanna utilize this new friend and she's i'm just playing chess maybe i'm playing checkers i don't know i don't really know how to play that anymore difference i don't either well i i think i know how to play checkers but i'm i'm probably playing checkers let's be honest but what what my point is is that it would be
so easy for me to just drop a fucking bomb on this really cool person and this really cool opportunity i have with not only the the ex but the new person who's gonna help me and the ex who by the way i also deeply deeply respect and care about and know in my heart that i'm not supposed to be with and i'm not supposed to have a relationship to but i think now that he and her are now entangled it's making me go wait i kinda want him to be entangled with me again which is not what i want it's just my whole this is my like fear of rejection coming up and my ego coming up but back to my point is like it would be
so easy for me to just fucking derail this whole thing because i'm insecure and i'm suddenly feeling like i'm in a place of resistance and it would be harder for me to hurt her
can i just ask a question
mhmm
can you explain to me what exactly you would do to derail this situation what would the old sneaky nasty you do
well i would i would probably just find ways to like i would probably start to avoid her i would probably like pull the pull the plug not not pull the plug but like sort of just pump the brakes on this like relationships that this relationship that i'm cultivating and and this relationship that i'm like actively pouring more time into i would probably pump the brakes on that
would you then like pull the string again on the person you used to be interested in
would i what on him
would you stoke the flame on the person you used to be interested in again
that would be like level 0 kendall because i'm not really somebody that does that if after a breakup but maybe i might i'm more of like a cold shoulder person like you don't exist i don't exist which is not really a great tactic
like a level 2
no i mean i like i think what i would do is i would pump the brakes on her and every time i would around i was around him i'd shut down i would not collaborate with him i would not collaborate with her and by and and then do it and i would just feel myself in a place of resistance in a place of shut down shut down in a place of like like i would just go to a really horrible horrible like detrimental negative self talk
place that probably wouldn't be lifted for a while
you're you're you're basically describing me like in my 10 my teens and twenties and sometimes my thirties but go ahead and sometimes my forties
but well what i was gonna say is like when i found out about this which how did you find out that's not important i found out and when i found out about this which happened quite literally yesterday all all of last night and like slivers of today i felt myself in that place like not really like acting not really acting out from that place but like in that mindset of like looking in the mirror and being like wow i'm fucking ugly or being like oh she's
so much better than me no wonder he wants her like there's no way i can collaborate her because of this there's no way that he's ever gonna wanna collaborate with me like things are gonna be awkward just like over and over and over and over and over and then like i had to remind myself like we're not doing that we're not gonna be we're not gonna like live there we're not gonna be in that mindset like yada yada yada but like it's day it's pretty much day 1 and i'm like already having to sort of like train train myself to like not go there
can i ask you a question sure
because i
think this is so incredibly relatable and what i visualize when i think about you standing on a street corner and having the thought cross your mind or seeing them talking or having a text show up from 1 of them because y'all are kind of collaborating in a professional sense
yeah
that you now literally find yourself at an emotional and mental crossroad the text or seeing them or a song coming on triggers you to be at the crossroad and the kendall 0 goes down the left hand road and has negative thoughts that basically beat the hell out of you and tell you a story see more evidence see this and the kendall what number are we gonna sign this fucking a 100 okay kendall fucking a 100 who then looks at the other fork which is a fork that's aligned with what you actually want with who you're becoming with energy that is in a groove that matches with you and that's a whole new way of thinking and being for you what's this been like and what would what is since you're actively in this how would you describe what people need to do who are in this situation they're literally just found out that their ex is going on a date with their friend they just found out that
the dream job that they got or the dream school that they wanted to be in went to somebody else and there's this moment where the way you thought things were gonna go just don't happen and you feel the sting that you're talking about and it just causes you to start telling yourself a very old story it's never gonna work out for you this always happens to me nobody's gonna love me you know when is it gonna be my turn all that crap how does somebody in that moment actually visualize a fork in the road start to catch that negativity and
redirect themselves in a new direction
i'm sort of just gonna start talking and i might contradict myself and i might go back on what i'm saying but i guess that's part of this whole thing but yeah i am driving up to fort and then potential encounter oh about to happen
that would be amazing i'm gonna manifest that right now dear god come on bring him in bring him in i would like to see the 2 of them walk around the corner as you're talking to us
no no no they're not i think what i tell myself is i'm like well i think that it helps for me it it it helps to know that like in my certain situation like i've i've already like done it and i've already tried it and it didn't work and i like i know in my heart like i think what you need to do in these kinds of situations is just like remember what you know to be true like in your heart like if it's your dream school and you didn't get in then and your best friend did like just believe in the fact that it's still your dream school and it's gonna happen it just might not be right
now and i think for me what i'm telling myself is like i don't want that relationship i don't wanna be in that relationship and i know that in my heart and like instead of torturing myself and going back to like my old ways of thinking and trying to tell myself that i do want it just so i can have some sort of stupid validation i'm gonna tell myself that like he's he's still here he's still talking to 1 of my good friends now maybe for a reason and instead of seeing this as like a detriment to my life like why don't i just flip the fucking script and like benefit from it like how cool would it be if 2 people who i know care about me who respect me deeply and who both wanna pour into me creatively and professionally how how fucking amazing would it be if they both fucking love each other and are botting and are awesome and how great is is it and how good and great does it feel to visualize like them hitting it off and them crushing on each other and them being awesome and great and just like an explosion of love and light and i just get to experience that and i get to be around that and i get to benefit from that
so here's the thing dude the fact that you've processed this in less than 24 hours and you're already loving light and alignment to me says you weren't that into him anyway and these are old wounds that you're working on around rejection
or or it says that i was and i'm mature as shit and i'm on my spiritual awakening journey and i'm a light i'm aligned
that you can i
don't know that
i think that's freaking hot that's no
like fuck though you weren't that into him like no i really was but i'm more into myself and i'm on my fucking journey and what of it
oh my god okay so i just got something from this and now my armpits are sweating because it's such a good idea you ready
sure
you are able to hyper process this because you are very clear about who you are and what it feels like when you're in the groove with energy and people and where you put your attention
mhmm
and it is very clear when you are in alignment with your energy with your focus with who you surround yourself with when something enters the space that's off you feel friction you don't feel like yourself you feel yourself reaching for old toxic behaviors yes and and that's why you were able to process this so quickly and hold space for the fact i still like the guy and i still wanna work with her and him
and him
i gotta figure this out because what the universe is actually teaching you ken is it's teaching you how to stay laser focused on your higher objective instead of getting sucked into the toxic bullshit that kendall 0 used to get sucked into
yeah 100%
i love that
yeah that that's that that feels very like clear and like makes sense to me because it's like i don't want to lose them i don't wanna like what i was saying about the whole derailing thing is like it would be so easy for me to just like derail okay not working with you not working with you i'm gonna go cry about it i'm gonna listen to fucking sad music and blahdy blahdy blah and miss this crazy good opportunity or i could win from this like it's just it's just the mindset of being like i can win from any situation okay well that's a little that's a little provincial but but actually ken i think it's a good it's a good mindset to have like any situation that you are in whether or not you put yourself there if you did if you didn't if it was placed upon you like you can still win and like it's just about like figuring out that higher objective and figuring out how you can feel aligned in that in that negative in that space that initially felt pretty negative okay hold that thought because i've got 1 final thing i wanna add to this conversation ken but i gotta throw to break we need to hear from our sponsors
so let me do that right now everybody hold on and we'll be right back okay ken i got 1 final thought if we were to roll the clock back 2 and a half years remember when you went through something way more painful than this moment it took a lot longer for you to process that
i know exactly what you're talking about
do you have any insight to offer for someone who's in that space that you were in 2 and a half years ago who thinks that what you're saying right now sounds absolutely fantastic but it's not at all realistic
mhmm everybody always says like you can't love anyone until you love yourself but i feel like that like the word choice in that isn't correct because if i had known at that 0.2 years ago when i was going through a much more painful and drawn out and confusing entangled breakup like i had no like i didn't really believe that like i didn't believe in myself like at that point in time i wasn't like i was put on this earth to do something bigger like i i i didn't like actually believe with my whole heart that like i was put on this earth to live an incredible life and that i had the power to do
so and like i think that's where a lot of people's issues are is that like they just they don't think that they're worth it they don't think that they can actually achieve their dreams they don't have dreams like you know what i mean and it's like at that point in time i i had ideas of what i thought my dreams were but they they weren't real and i didn't actually believe like i i'm do i'm gonna be doing something bigger than this like this is just like a a piece to the puzzle it's not the puzzle itself and i feel like right
now i can actually taste like the bigger things that are gonna be happening for me and like i can feel that like and and because i can taste it i know that this small challenge tied is just a test you know and it's not the whole thing and it's and and it's i can i can easily compartmentalize it because i can taste the bigger picture but like i had to do a lot of fucking taste testings before that you know what i mean like go to the winery babe
i love that and i would add 1 more thing you're able to process this entanglement in hyper freaking star wars like whatever speed like i just see hyper speed because of everything that you allowed yourself to feel and learn and process and mourn and discover about yourself in that painful year of breaking up just like i am able to feel a level of contentment and happiness that i've never experienced in my life
now that i'm 53 because of the protracted painful awful horrible 2 years of heartbreak that you had a front row seat to
yeah
and i think the breakthrough that you receive in life is in direct reverse proportion to how painful the experience was and when you get any but i
don't think that that i don't think that that is is widespread and that isn't like a way to seek
i don't recommend you smash into a wall to learn a lesson i'm saying life does that to you and if you are able to process the hard stuff as a lesson 1 of the benefits is the the future you gets within an inch of anything that feels familiar to that old pain you have an opportunity to go oh 0 i'm at that crossroad i see the old me i could spend a year doing this bullshit where i suck my thumb in the corner and i play small and i pretend my life is over and i hate every other woman because they're prettier or yeah i know that road or you actually put yourself in park and say wait a minute i learned something from that and what i learned is i'm not fucking doing that again to myself i also think like for this example especially with this like girl and this guy like i think like even yesterday and today i felt a little bit of like oh well maybe like this maybe that road that they're on is like the wrong 1 like maybe i'm like oh well maybe i should like i'm like visualizing a lot of like going left and going right and like the for some reason the right is always like the right road to go down i mean i don't think that was a coincidence in my brain but what i'm saying is like yesterday i was like you know what maybe like collaborating with both of these people is not go is is is going to the left it's not going to the right and like i i shouldn't i shouldn't be go i shouldn't be collaborating with them like this is not a good idea but then i was like no because if i wasn't collaborating with them then i would actually be going to the left because i would be like in resistance and i would be in pain and i would be comparing myself to every other woman on the face of fucking earth you know what i mean it's like yes con consider that you don't do that and then see which road you're on amazing hold that thought i just wanna ask andrea and maddie and jesse do you have any question you want me to ask kendall maddie you got 1 i was crying because what you said no well what you said is exactly what i've been going through like literally right
now and what i went through like i think almost 3 and a half years ago when i went through like a really prolonged drawn out breakup where i felt like i wasn't good enough to be in the relationship and i wasn't enough to be enough for you know what he wanted when that wasn't the case and it's taken me a really long time to get to the other side of it i like the question of like what would you tell your past self but like not even what could you take away it's just like if you could place yourself in this moment where you feel the exact same way that you felt at that time like you you know that you would make a different decision right i think honestly like if i was in that like really hard like cyclical bad pattern what i would do is just like every day do like a little something that scared me or do like every time that i felt like just that like shit mindset i was going back to like every time i felt myself going back to it like just toy with the idea or like welcome the idea of doing the other thing you know what i mean because that's just like sort of building that muscle like strengthening the muscle of like going to the right instead of the left like because for me in that really long breakup it was like i was in the same place like i'm not good enough for him like he's i'm never gonna be good enough for him and
now i've gotten to a point where i'm like it is a fucking gift that i was even with him and it is a gift that it didn't work out and like it's not it had nothing to do with me not being good enough to him it was just like he was a part of my journey and like he served his purpose and i knew all along it wasn't supposed to be like a lifetime but i think it i resisted going to the right for so long like to the point where literally like there was a fucking roadblock like the road fell apart the left road fell apart and it was like i don't have a choice you know what i mean and
so i think what would what my piece of advice would be is to like practice just like turning right a little bit here and there every day just go to the right oh i normally would do this but let me just try doing that or i normally would think this but let me just try thinking that and i honestly think that like that will help you strengthen the muscle because the amount of resistance i was in for so long going to the left going to the left going to the left when the universe was like go to the fucking right was just like a waste of time and
now i know that like if i just practice trying to do the other thing think the other way like it would have been so much easier for me to see like the strung along pattern that had been being created for me all along well i
think it's interesting like the fact that you said go to the left and go to the right because i think that you can take that in so many different directions like something that my dad has always told me is like always like choose yourself and i've never done this right like i i always put others in front of myself and like i always put others' feelings in others' situations and how other people you know react to what i do before what i think about my actions and so i think it's interesting because turning left to me when you said it i was like that feels like choosing everybody else and turning right feels like choosing me yes 100% that's it like you always know what like you should be doing for you but it's like scarier to do that or you don't wanna do that because it might fuck up what's going on with everyone else but the you start putting you it's like it's just like a trickle down effect like you start attracting more shit to just start happening for you and it's incredible it's
so interesting that you say that because i recently started doing those kinds of things and i literally see a shift in my behavior and how other people like react to my behavior like the confidence that i have based on choices that i've made in the last 6 months alone has been completely different than the confidence i had even a year ago that like i can make decisions now today that i couldn't that i i know i couldn't have made a year ago and it's because of totally choices of like turning right and choosing me instead of doing things for other people and doing things for the benefit of other people instead of doing them for the benefit of me yeah good on you man my mom i i'm literally class starts in 1 minute
so i do have to leave let's talk after class
i love you i'm proud of you actually i'm proud of the person you're becoming and your ability to share everything that you're learning through all of it with all of us
i'm proud of me too like i've come a long fucking way oh my god
i like it's it's like
laughable but i'm
like i'm
like just happy and i'm like grateful that i can like be this mindful about myself and like i'm finally like manifesting and attracting and like doing things that i've always like wished i could you know
i love it and well we'll keep sharing and unpacking it so everybody else can learn along the way too have a great class
we will
alright i love you
love you too bye i guess the 1 thing i wanna say having had a front row seat into the 24 hour evolved hyperspeed star wars style and i say star wars star wars because i'm thinking about how fast those ships fly the 24 hour processing versus the literally year and a half long train wreck is what it was i wanna say this that of all you know me and i love simple visual tools that yank you out of emotional states going left means you're choosing other people going left means you're seeking validation going left means you're repeating old patterns old behaviors old stories going right means making teeny decisions where you choose yourself teeny decisions where you find the courage to do something different don't go hang out at that guy's frat house hoping he sees you go find your girlfriends at the library don't go stalking somebody on social media get your butt outside and go for a walk or go to a class like don't continue to pour yourself into what the old you or the old relationship or the old thing was find a way each day to turn towards something new that's how you start to make the right choices that align with who you're becoming instead of just grasping at what was and what no longer is
and the other thing i wanna tell you and i can say this from personal experience and i can say this from watching this year and a half painful thing that happened to our daughter where she was entangled if you keep choosing left the universe god the world energy whatever you believe in it cares so much about you that eventually it is gonna drop a motherfucking sledgehammer on your face and it is gonna cause and it is going to create the most painful
personal and shocking breakdown in your life because you're being so stubborn in choosing left all the time knowing that you need to inch yourself in the right direction that the universe or god or whatever the forces greater than you are gonna wake your ass up by doing something painful and personal so you cannot ignore the fact that this thing that you keep doing it is terrible for you and sometimes those wake up calls are exactly what we need for kendall it was a deep deep betrayal for me it was multiple deep deep betrayals all of which woke us both up to see that boy we had been heading down the left path for a long time and we were too stubborn or insecure to wake up and see it do not wait for your life to fall apart to understand the power of choosing a different path to wake up every day and find the courage to inch right to inch towards something that feels different that feels like an opening that feels expansive and here's how you're gonna know i'm gonna give you 1 more tool
so you've got this idea of visualizing a crossroad you have this idea of alignment and what feels right and what doesn't feel right you have this alignment you have this idea of choosing the left path or the right path and that has nothing to do with politics by the way it's just a metaphor so don't add any drama to it please i don't wanna hear about it in the comments it's just the old thing you used to do and a new and different way here's another 1 here's how you know what is aligned with you energy doesn't lie when you ask yourself how could i make this a win turn toward what feels expansive turn toward what brings a little bit of energy into your life if it's old and if it's painful and if it's the wrong path you're gonna feel yourself shrinking you're gonna feel yourself depleted you're gonna feel your energy leave you the interesting thing if you listen closely to kendall share with you is that she was very quick to say i'm gonna cut these people out of my life but when she paid attention to the energy she was like woah woah woah wait a minute cutting them out of my life feels like i'm shrinking it feels like my energy's leaving me it feels like my power's going away turning toward them showing up differently being open to receiving that feels energizing that feels expansive that feels actually different you can use energy like that we're gonna talk a ton about that as we get to know each other to make the right best
next choice for you and that's what matters and that's why i'm sharing all this stuff with you not because i have the answers but because you have the answers for you inside of you and inside of every experience that you're going through in life and we'll keep you updated we'll see how the hyper processing is going with kendall i'm so proud of her and you wanna know what else i'm proud of you i'm proud of you for taking the time to be here with me for listening and learning and hopefully for applying this to your life and i want you to know that that's why i'm here i'm here on mondays to help you start your week i'm here on thursdays to help you get through it i'm here sharing the ups and downs the good the bad all of it for 1 reason and the reason is because i love you and i believe in you and i believe in me and i believe in both of our abilities to create a better life and that's what the mel robbins podcast is all about you got me i got you we're doing it together
so if you got something out of this episode please please please share this with somebody who could use this subscribe to the mel robbins podcast wherever you get your podcast you're gonna find your friend mel robbins there and that's it have an absolutely amazing day no go make it an amazing day and just make the next right choice for you